---
layout: post
title: Node Knockout 2013
contrast: dark
duration: 2
categories: writings
comments: true
excerpt: Competing in the world-wide competition to build an application with NodeJS.
---

Three teammates and myself competed in a 48 hour worldwide competition to build an application using the NodeJS server framework. There was 385 teams competing from midnight UTC on November 9th to midnight November 11th. With entries from social gaming over socket connections to a porn search engine the competition was, needless to say, diverse.

My team decided to create an application in which we later named Cast.tv. The application aimed to lower the barrier of entry for curated broadcasting by allowing users to use any camera with an internet connection, such as your phone, and stream that video to a director who would then pick which feed was live to their users.

It was interesting as it was my first experience building anything using WebRTC. One of the nice things in using WebRTC is it creates a peer to peer network of all the devices connecting to our application, which reduced server load on our end. Also if our server crashed as long as the users maintained connection their broadcast wouldn't be interrupted. This was especially nice in our demonstration because we were only given a small server instance to run our application on for the competition.

We also tried implementing a live closed captioning feature in which a user could connect a microphone only and enable closed captioning in which then any user could turn on closed captioning and get a live transcript of the broadcast. We used the new HTML5 Web Speech API to achieve this which in turn uses Google's speech recognition servers to parse the audio in. We would then send the text over a socket connection to the viewers of the broadcast. We found that the recognition worked well when you were near the microphone and spoke clearly. Also as a way of debouncing requests the api waits for a pause in the audio in to send the request to be parsed, this was problematic if the speaker didn't take pauses often as then a large chunk of text would be parsed and sent to the viewers.

After a week of judging by a panel of judges from diverse backgrounds and locations around the world, we ended up placing in the top 100 overall and in the top 10 for the innovation category. Which in my opinon was pretty darn good for our first time in the competition. Here is our video giving a quick demo of our application.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/KHqrKUvSXDI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


The competition was an interesting experience, it was amazing to see all the applications were built. As for competing again next year? Maybe, 48 hours is quite the marathon.
